---
title: CLI Commands
---


## Getting Started

* [vela env](vela_env)	 - Manage environments for vela applications to run.
* [vela init](vela_init)	 - Create scaffold for vela application.
* [vela up](vela_up)	 - Deploy one application

 Deploy one application based on local files or re-deploy an existing application. With the -n/--namespace flag, you can choose the location of the target application.

 To apply application from file, use the -f/--file flag to specify the application file location.

 To give a particular version to this deploy, use the -v/--publish-version flag. When you are deploying an existing application, the version name must be different from the current name. You can also use a history revision for the deploy and override the current application by using the -r/--revision flag.
* [vela show](vela_show)	 - Show the reference doc for component, trait, policy or workflow types. 'vela show' equals with 'vela def show'. 

## Managing Applications

* [vela addon](vela_addon)	 - Manage addons for extension.
* [vela status](vela_status)	 - Show status of vela application.
* [vela delete](vela_delete)	 - Delete an application.
* [vela exec](vela_exec)	 - Execute command inside container based vela application.
* [vela port-forward](vela_port-forward)	 - Forward local ports to container/service port of vela application.
* [vela logs](vela_logs)	 - Tail logs for vela application.
* [vela ql](vela_ql)	 - Show result of executing velaQL, use it like:
		vela ql --query "inner-view-name{param1=value1,param2=value2}"
		vela ql --file ./ql.cue
* [vela live-diff](vela_live-diff)	 - Compare application and revisions
* [vela top](vela_top)	 - Launch UI to display platform overview information and diagnose the status for any specific application.
* [vela ls](vela_ls)	 - List all vela applications.
* [vela dry-run](vela_dry-run)	 - Dry-run application locally, render the Kubernetes resources as result to stdout.
	vela dry-run -d /definition/directory/or/file/ -f /path/to/app.yaml

You can also specify a remote url for app:
	vela dry-run -d /definition/directory/or/file/ -f https://remote-host/app.yaml

* [vela revision](vela_revision)	 - Manage KubeVela Application Revisions

## Continuous Delivery

* [vela auth](vela_auth)	 - 
* [vela cluster](vela_cluster)	 - Manage Kubernetes Clusters for Continuous Delivery.
* [vela config](vela_config)	 - Manage the configs, such as the terraform provider, image registry, helm repository, etc.
* [vela kube](vela_kube)	 - 
* [vela workflow](vela_workflow)	 - Operate the Workflow during Application Delivery. Note that workflow command is both valid for Application Workflow and WorkflowRun(expect for [restart, rollout] command, they're only valid for Application Workflow). The command will try to find the Application first, if not found, it will try to find WorkflowRun. You can also specify the resource type by using --type flag.

## Managing Extension

* [vela uischema](vela_uischema)	 - Manage UI schema for addons.
* [vela def](vela_def)	 - Manage X-Definitions for extension.
* [vela registry](vela_registry)	 - Manage Registry of X-Definitions for extension.
* [vela provider](vela_provider)	 - Authenticate Terraform Cloud Providers by managing Terraform Controller Providers with its credential secret
* [vela component](vela_component)	 - List component types installed and discover more in registry.
* [vela config-template](vela_config-template)	 - 
* [vela trait](vela_trait)	 - List trait types installed and discover more in registry.

## Others

* [vela uninstall](vela_uninstall)	 - Uninstalls KubeVela from a Kubernetes cluster.
* [vela install](vela_install)	 - The Kubevela CLI allows installing Kubevela on any Kubernetes derivative to which your kube config is pointing to.
* [vela completion](vela_completion)	 - Output shell completion code for the specified shell (bash or zsh). 
The shell code must be evaluated to provide interactive completion of vela commands.
* [vela export](vela_export)	 - Export deploy manifests from appfile or application.
* [vela system](vela_system)	 - Manage system, incluing printing the system deployment information in vela-system namespace and diagnosing the system's health.
* [vela version](vela_version)	 - Prints vela build version information.

###### Auto generated by [script in KubeVela](https://github.com/kubevela/kubevela/tree/master/hack/docgen).