---
title: BizWorks' practice on upgrading KubeVela from 1.1.5 to 1.2.5
author: jingliming
author_title: （Application platform development team）
author_url: https://bizworks.aliyun.com/
author_image_url: /img/alibaba-bizworks.png
tags: [ KubeVela ]
description: ""
image: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubevela/kubevela.io/main/docs/resources/KubeVela-03.png
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

This article mainly focuses on the introduction and summary of smooth upgrade in the process of in-depth use of KubeVela. There will be similar articles in the follow-up, hoping to provide some help to those who need and want to know about KubeVela and BizWorks.

## The reason for the upgrade
The cooperation between BizWorks and KubeVela started from version 1.0.5. With the help and guidance of KubeVela, BizWorks completed the key technology verification on version 1.0.5 and released the CD capability of BizWorks to support clusters on version 1.1.2, BizWorks 1030 version released a stable CD delivery version based on KubeVela 1.1.5, which is still in use today. However, since KubeVela complies with the cloud-native open source iterative specification, the overall function optimization and enhancement pace is relatively fast. Considering the stability of commercial products, BizWorks has always followed the specifications of pre-research, repeated verification, grayscale verification, full release, so it lags behind the large version of KubeVela. In order to better support BizWorks CD capabilities, and because the last version 1.1.5 was released half a year ago, BizWorks started the access work of the new version.
## Introduction to upgrade steps
This upgrade is from KubeVela 1.1.5 to KubeVela 1.2.5, and other upgrades need to be verified by themselves.
### Preparation before upgrading
The following are the inspection items that need to be prepared before upgrading, you can compare them according to your actual situation
- 1.2.5 KubeVela CRD, which can be obtained from the official website source code file
- KubeVela offline mirror, obtained in the same way as above, for offline deployment or use[velad](https://github.com/oam-dev/velad)
- Custom Definition
### Check the KubeVela service
This step is mainly to check whether KubeVela is running normally. If the pod is not in a ready state, in theory, the automatic execution of the upgrade script should be prohibited. Manual intervention is required to fix the KubeVela running state first.
```
NAME                                            READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
pod/kubevela-cluster-gateway-5bff6d564d-rhkp7   1/1     Running   0          16d
pod/kubevela-vela-core-b67b87c7-9w7d4           1/1     Running   1          16d

NAME                                       TYPE        CLUSTER-IP       EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)    AGE
service/kubevela-cluster-gateway-service   ClusterIP   172.16.236.150   <none>        9443/TCP   16d
service/vela-core-webhook                  ClusterIP   172.16.54.195    <none>        443/TCP    284d

NAME                                       READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
deployment.apps/kubevela-cluster-gateway   1/1     1            1           16d
deployment.apps/kubevela-vela-core         1/1     1            1           284d

NAME                                                  DESIRED   CURRENT   READY   AGE
replicaset.apps/kubevela-cluster-gateway-5bff6d564d   1         1         1       16d
replicaset.apps/kubevela-vela-core-569669cfb5         0         0         0       136d
replicaset.apps/kubevela-vela-core-75bcc6b64          0         0         0       226d
replicaset.apps/kubevela-vela-core-78cf7cb5c7         0         0         0       225d
replicaset.apps/kubevela-vela-core-b67b87c7           1         1         1       16d
replicaset.apps/kubevela-vela-core-cfc54f68f          0         0         0       223d
replicaset.apps/kubevela-vela-core-ff5fcbc44          0         0         0       284d
```
In addition, it is also necessary to check whether the status of the application and workload enabled by the corresponding plug-in is normal.
### update the CRD
According to the update and upgrade plan recommended by the official website, the CRD of version 1.2.5 needs to be updated to the cluster before the upgrade. The list of CRDs is as follows
```shell
kubectl apply -f /path/to/your/crds/core.oam.dev_applicationrevisions.yaml
kubectl apply -f /path/to/your/crds/core.oam.dev_applications.yaml
kubectl apply -f /path/to/your/crds/core.oam.dev_componentdefinitions.yaml
kubectl apply -f /path/to/your/crds/core.oam.dev_definitionrevisions.yaml
kubectl apply -f /path/to/your/crds/core.oam.dev_envbindings.yaml
kubectl apply -f /path/to/your/crds/core.oam.dev_healthscopes.yaml
kubectl apply -f /path/to/your/crds/core.oam.dev_manualscalertraits.yaml
kubectl apply -f /path/to/your/crds/core.oam.dev_policydefinitions.yaml
kubectl apply -f /path/to/your/crds/core.oam.dev_resourcetrackers.yaml
kubectl apply -f /path/to/your/crds/core.oam.dev_scopedefinitions.yaml
kubectl apply -f /path/to/your/crds/core.oam.dev_traitdefinitions.yaml
kubectl apply -f /path/to/your/crds/core.oam.dev_workflowstepdefinitions.yaml
kubectl apply -f /path/to/your/crds/core.oam.dev_workloaddefinitions.yaml
kubectl apply -f /path/to/your/crds/standard.oam.dev_rollouts.yaml
```
### Execute the upgrade command
This step is the key step to upgrade KubeVela. The execution command is as follows
``` shell
helm upgrade -n vela-system --install kubevela kubevela/vela-core --version 1.2.5 --wait
```
### Enable addon
After the upgrade is successful, users can use the following methods to enable addonss if they need to be enabled
```shell
# View the list of addons
vela addon list
# Enable addon
vela addon enable xxx
```
⚠️Note: This step is not required if the addon is already enabled and used in the pre-upgrade version
### Update custom definition
After enabling the addon, users can update their custom definition to KubeVela, and the normal upgrade process is completed!
## Q&A
The following are the pits that I personally stepped on during the upgrade from 1.1.5 to 1.2.5
- Q: After upgrading from 1.1.5 to 1.2.5, the application status becomes workflowsuspending, and using workflow resume is invalid
- A: The reason is that rt already exists. Check the status of the application to see the specific reason. The solution is to delete rt and use workflow resume xxx.
- Q: How to solve the business application in workflow suspending state
- A: After the update, the status of apply changes to running, so if the status of the application does not affect the business process, it can be resolved automatically after the user operation is upgraded.
- Q: The application associated with the flux addon used, the status is always workflowsuspending
- A: This can only be restored by manually deleting rt and then executing vela workflow resume. Generally, it does not affect normal use. It can be restored during subsequent upgrades.
- Q: The rollout of the stock may fail to deploy the update components
- A: Solve by replacing the ownreferences of the stock controllerrevision and point the controllerrevision to the application
- Q: The updated definition file found that it did not take effect
- A: You need to modify the flux application, remove componentDefinition and traitDefinition